foreign
so excited to have you all here today to
hear us talk a little bit about
increasing Runway without sacrificing
growth
um you know we're gonna do it really
casual up here and so we're gonna hand
it over uh pretty quickly but I'm
excited to have this conversation so hey
my name is Christina Shen I am a GP at
Andresen Horowitz
um and today you know I want to talk a
lot about uh burn management and what's
been talked about along the market and
what I want to talk about today is
actually burn management is really not
one size fits all
I think there's been some phenomenal
content put out there David Sachs has
done some great content around burn
multiples and how that can be a
measurement of capital efficiency
our own growth fund and David George has
talked about how to manage in a downturn
market and so you know I'm going to
dissect a lot of the thoughts that uh
great people for me have put together
today to talk about how I think about
burn management
and so rule number one I think has been
all over Twitter be default alive
um this is a chart put actually together
by Bessemer Adventure partners of the
publicly traded SAS companies how
they've traded over time and what's
really interesting you can see obviously
there's been a whole huge bull market
over the last 12 years but in particular
in the last three years we've seen
multiples uh really skyrocketed this is
SAS multiples for one year forward
revenue and if you look at the top
quartile at the peak so the top 25
percent of SAS and Cloud companies in
the public markets they are trading at
24 times Revenue
over the last uh nine or ten months that
has now dropped to eight times that is
one third of what they used to be and so
you might be saying hey Christina what
does that mean for me I might be an
early stage SAS startup I might have 5
million Revenue I might have no Revenue
well look the private markets really do
look at the public markets for guidance
in terms of valuation and there's
obviously been a huge correction and so
uh one recommendation I tell people is
like you always have to think about your
next financing event and so whether that
be an exit whether it be your next
fundraise if the public markets are
trading at eight times for a company
that is growing 30 to 50 percent if not
higher in the private markets that
typically means that your value Mission
multiple drops as well and so a good
proxy is like many investors will look
at a multiple to the private markets if
it's trading at eight times in the
public market it might be trading at 15
times in the private markets so as you
think about that plan your Revenue ahead
apply a reasonable multiple that could
be eight times that could be 15 times or
higher depending where the markets are
and think about you can get to your next
level
now after that it's all about building
an efficient business
talked about David Sachs and his great
burn multiple chart he talks about you
know and burn multiple for those you
don't know net burn divided by net new
Revenue one is amazing and over three is
less than ideal now you look at this
chart and you say like well does that
really fit every single business
for me the two biggest challenges is
this really doesn't factor in r d costs
in the company so today the amazing
announcement of figma selling to Adobe
for 22 billion I think it's the largest
private
um SAS company to ever be sold in
history
most people don't realize they actually
raise 50 million dollars before actually
generating their first dollar of Revenue
and you would say wow they would be a
horrendous burn multiple and that that
is true there are exceptions
particularly if you are building a more
platform-based company that requires
um obviously a lot of r d costs to build
up a lot of infrastructure companies
tend to have higher r d costs and so
that is one big challenge right and the
second is obviously stage earlier stage
companies you don't have revenue or
you're just starting Revenue the ratio
of the burn multiple sometimes is not
the best representation of your business
so I actually really like to think about
burn management by stage right and
apologies for my bad PowerPoint
scribbling but like you know
pre-everything category if you don't
have Revenue it's it's an asymptote
Infinity right but if you think about if
you are a five million AR business and
you grew from you know let's call it uh
two to five million in the last year
burn management for you probably means
that you should be burning somewhere
between three and maybe upwards of nine
million dollars and so I actually really
think like we put a lot of emphasis on
these benchmarks and burn multiples but
it really really depends by stage
because you are investing so much in r d
the special part of your business is
your engineering and product teams that
are enabling you to continue to grow and
have Innovation and so one thing to
always remember is like these benchmarks
they're great guidelines but really look
at it by stage
now I I'm probably old school I've now
been you know actually I saw my great
Little Star for saster I've now been
speaking at sassa this is my third year
running
um and I actually am a big fan of CAC
payback uh most of you know this metric
it's sales and marketing divided by net
New mrr Times gross margin
um and this is why I really really like
this map this metric actually more than
burn multiples
so it factors in all the things you
really care about right it factors in
how efficient your sales and marketing
is it factors in how quickly your
revenue is growing it factors in if if
anyone is churning because you're
looking at net new Mr and it factors in
if you have an efficient gross margin
but it does not factor in r d and I
think that quite frankly is like that is
the secret sauce our businesses is that
r d is how we invest in the future
and so I generally have this uh
recommendation that look burn multiple
is a great hacky way for you to quickly
see how how you're managing burn within
your business
but my big recommendation is for later
stage companies particularly if you're
five if not 10 million AR and higher to
definitely start measuring your business
by a CAC payback because that's a true
measure of new Revenue that you're
generating from your sales and marketing
engine and how efficient your business
is
um so with that you know that's a quick
overview of how you know we think about
burn management what's possible where
things can be really fun is we're going
to dive a little bit deeper into what
are some non-linear ways that you can
grow uh outside of thinking about bird
management so I'm going to hand over to
my partner Sean here
thanks Christina Partnerships are a
great way to get non-linear growth
without having to spend as much money in
sales and marketing
in my operating
I ran business development for three SAS
companies Cornerstone on demand wage
Works and upwork and I learned that are
five key rules to doing Partnerships
the first rule
order fit
setting up Partnerships is like dating
you have to go on a lot of First Dates
to find the right fit
the best Partnerships are those where
you extend the product offering of
another partner
so I'll give you three examples so the
first example is Salesforce
a natural extension to their CRM product
is cpq so in the Enterprise They
partnered with aptus in the mid-market
they partnered with steel brick
another example is Gusto who sells
payroll a natural extension to their
product is 401K so they partner with
guideline for 401k
and then a third example is netsuite who
sells Erp a natural extension to their
product is closed management software so
a partner would flow cast one of my
portfolio companies
a common mistake is people think that
giving the partner commissions to sell
your product is going to be the primary
motivating factor there's no amount of
money you can give a partner to motivate
them to represent you
the what's going to really motivate them
is helping them sell more of their own
product more quickly
the second rule about Partnerships is
about entering new markets it is
impossible to get into every Market in
every industry without Partnerships
when I was at Cornerstone we were really
strong at selling to the Enterprise in
mid-market so we found Partners to help
us sell in the SMB Market
we also sold really well in North
America and Europe so we found Partners
to help us sell in Latin America and
Asia Pacific
we also sold pretty well to most
Industries but in higher education
few vendors that
that Suite so we had to part
Players called ellucian
a common mistake that people make is
they try to partner with too many
players in any one industry or geography
and what happens is you have very
limited resources to enable those
Partners to be successful and you might
create channel conflict and then those
Partners don't want to work with you
anymore
the third rule about Partnerships is
enablement most people celebrate signing
Partnerships
but signing Partnerships doesn't matter
at all what really matters is about
enabling them to be successful
when I was at Cornerstone we partnered
with Ceridian in Canada
and we enabled their sales marketing
support and implementation teams
to sell on our behalf
and because that worked out so well we
didn't need to have any other partners
in Canada
a common mistake is people will just
enable the partner on day one and walk
away
but you need to enable them and train
them just like your own employees
your your product changes the
competition changes the market changes
the people changes at the product at the
partner you need to treat them just like
your own employees
the fourth rule of Partnerships is
around reciprocation
when I was at Cornerstone we wanted to
get the attention of ADP and we thought
how do we best do that and we said well
why don't we start sending them business
so Cornerstone we sold performance and
learning products ADP was selling
recruiting so what we did was we started
selling them recruiting business
and then eventually they started selling
and sending us performance and learning
business because they didn't want those
leads to dry up
the referral relationship went so well
that they said hey let's do a reseller
Arrangement so we started small in the
Northwest region
we enabled their sales marketing
implementation and support teams in the
northwest region to be successful once
we had a repeatable motion we
transitioned that to other other regions
across the U.S and across the world and
before you knew that we had over a
thousand sales people selling our
product on our behalf
a common mistake people have
is that they will go to the big
potential partner and expect them to
start sending them business day one
you know a common company that people
want to partner with the sales force
well their sales reps have so many
products to sell they keep building
products they keep buying products it's
really hard to get their attention
unless you start sending the business
first that can really separate you from
all the other startups
the fifth rule around Partnerships is m
a
how many people here hope to sell their
company one day
it's got to be more than that come on
can be after you go public too yeah
exactly
so
partners are the best source of M A
activity companies are not sold they're
bought and those that have the most
intimate relationship with you are
likely the ones that will acquire you
down down the line
a really good example of that is case
one of norwest's portfolio companies
they wanted to get Dell's attention like
we want to get adp's attention so they
started sending them leads and Dell
didn't want those leads to go away so
Dell started sending case business back
that referral relationship started going
really well that eventually led to a
reseller arrangement
two years after they started that
partnership
Dell bought case it was a great outcome
for case great outcome for Norwest
but a common mistake is people get so
excited about one partner that they put
all their resource around that partner
to be successful and there's too much
revenue coming for one partner and if
that partnership goes away or goes south
it puts your business at risk
so I typically recommend no more than 10
of your revenue from one partner
so we talked about five key rules of
Partnerships partner fit
entering new markets enablement
reciprocation and M A it's now my
pleasure to introduce you to my partner
Scott
thanks Sean okay next up
some do-it-yourself growth hacks to
juice your sales on a dime
there's never been more value in your
install base because we may be entering
a period of very very low to no new logo
growth so protect them at all costs
the classic Glenn Gary Glenn Ross always
be selling always be closing
is actually everybody be closing in a
market like this you should think about
mental exercise retool your brain to
think of every employee in your company
as a lightweight customer success or
account executive
what does that mean it means that
engineers
product people back office folks can be
on the phone with customers you gotta
love your customers right now because
that's where you're going to get the
growth the expansion the upsell the
cross sell
because if you don't embrace your
customers right now and build deeper
relationships your competitors will
back in 2015
I was at desk.com and we hit some
headwinds and our GM at the time she
said okay
we gotta touch get in touch with every
single customer oh they've got a
thousand of them how are we gonna do
this well she assigned a list of
customers to everyone we're talking
about you know the Rev ops manager we're
talking about you know product marketing
managers everybody we all called every
customer and guess what we found out we
found out that there were a tremendous
number of customer support issues that
were unsolved that weren't even logged
in tickets so we proactively dealt with
those and probably lowered our term
we also found out this was a little bit
more shocking than most customers were
only using about five percent of what we
built
so we we helped them even Engineers were
great at this they said oh my gosh I've
been working on this product for years
and you don't even know it exists well
let me help you and what do you know
that led to expansions and upsells
so in a downturn
everybody should be closing
this next one's one of my favorites
never been a better time to get creative
get as creative as you possibly can
tool your brain to in your cold Outreach
because every buyer is inundated by SAS
reps blasting them on every channel you
gotta get through
about 10 years ago I was at Salesforce
and
there was a sales rep from pluralsight
who spent a year sending me messages
over LinkedIn
found out he figured out my email
address he reverse it or he he socially
engineered his way into my voicemail
I ignored all of it not on purpose it
just the other things were going on it
wasn't until I got a call from the mail
room and they said Scott you got to come
down here you got a perishable item oh
that's weird I never get a perishable
items so I went down and sure enough
there's a warm apple pie sitting there
with a cellophane uh front to it so I
knew exactly what was going on I took it
upstairs and the smell of the apples and
the cinnamon permeated the entire floor
and so everybody comes right what's
going on over here hey can I get a slice
of that hey who's that from oh
pluralsight pluralsight who is that who
sent that to you oh well you're going to
call them back I guess I am now foreign
so a series of meetings one thing led to
another
and we he closed a multi-million dollar
deal not bad for a fifty dollar apple
pie
everybody's talking about plg these days
product LED growth and why not right
it's a cheap way to new ACV
two of the companies that have taught us
everything we know about plg are right
here Slack
and calendly
these companies are brilliant they're
they're what I would call Pure play plg
in the sense that they give away nearly
100 of their product for free
and then they have this they build this
flywheel
to incent and gamify the system to so
that these free users will invite other
free users into the system and it starts
to grow virally and then they back up
the truck with the Enterprise upsell
had the benefit
building a plg product from day one
most companies don't have that privilege
in fact if you try to jackhammer
your own product to become a plg product
it could take you quarters or years you
may never get there in fact maybe you
shouldn't ever get there
not all companies were designed to be
plg companies it's it's okay the good
news is there's an in-between I call it
welterweight plg where you can make a
small investment and get a lot of the
benefits out of plg now if you have a
trial a free trial on your backlog your
product backlog somewhere now is the
time to spin it up
if you have feature Flags that's a great
way to turn on just enough functionality
in that trial to get those free users
engaged and make sure that trial never
expires wire up your face favorite user
Analytics tool mix panel pendo whatever
you like and give that data to your
sales team let them see how they're
using the product so that when they
engage they have more context they can
have a more intelligent conversation
build a drip campaign
through email and let your custom look
let these prospects know why it's so
important to upgrade to the Enterprise
version all the value they're going to
get
I sit on the board of a company called
connect the dots
and what connect the dots does is they
built a product that allows you to see
within your network who actually knows
who for the purposes of getting a warm
introduction to a buyer
when they started the company they built
they wanted to build two products
product one was a plg product product
two was an Enterprise product
well like every SAS company I've ever
had experience with they didn't have
infinite resources so they had to pick
and choose they put the wood most of the
wood behind the arrow of the Enterprise
product and that was great because
that's where that's where the dollars
were but that didn't mean that they
could that they just completely forgot
about the plg product in fact what they
did is they built a free product you can
go sign up right now and get almost all
of the functionality for free forever
but what they didn't do
is they didn't build that flywheel
that's a very engineering heavy exercise
it can take a very long time tremendous
amount of effort to build that gamified
system that flywheel that Viral growth
engine they'll get there
but all their sales reps have mixed
panel data and so they know exactly when
customers when prospects are using the
product in just the right way engaging
with the product in the right way where
they can say okay now is this moment we
can unlock a tremendous amount of value
for you and maybe close an Enterprise
deal
welterweight plg
all right so
let's talk about throwing out the trash
and focusing on the fresh food
there is
there there is a tremendous opportunity
right now
to focus on that which is working the
best
and quite frankly
never been a better time
to focus on your sales pipeline how many
people in this room have a SAS sales
pipeline
okay nearly everyone that's good because
so this might land
during a downturn the way we look at our
pipeline very different
from every other period in history now
is the time to focus on those top 25
percent of accounts that are most likely
to close and throw out the other the
bottom 75 percent why because they're
probably not going to close anyway I
mean customer we we've all seen it there
the budgets are Frozen They're bumping
they're buying decisions out to 2023 and
it's okay you can focus in on that which
is most likely to close and you can
spend more high quality time with those
customers that have a higher chance of
success
you know way back in 2001 I was running
my own company and we sold a product to
the healthcare industry
it was 2001 and you know we had an
account list of 30 Prospect accounts
that we wanted to go after but the Twin
Towers had just come down and the
markets were tanking we knew buyers
weren't going to buy anything for about
a year maybe more who knew
so we did is we said we're going to
focus on five accounts
I'm just gonna put those other 25 aside
for a minute we focus all of our product
energy all of our sales and demo energy
into building the best most highly
customized demos for these five
customers we spent a tremendous amount
of high quality time with those
customers
and we ended up closing a hundred
percent of those five now could we have
closed some of those other 25
Maybe
but we would have spread ourselves real
thin and right now during a downturn we
there is no room to spread yourself thin
you've got to build the deepest possible
relationships you can with your
prospects
full stop
so throughout the trash focus on the
fresh food
this last one is a Dave Kellogg special
for those of you who have been disaster
in the past Dave is one of my favorite
keynote speakers he's incredible and
what Dave would say during a downturn is
why waste your time building trust with
a new customer
when you could hunt down your old
customers and do jobs your old customers
hopefully love you
and you can help them build their new
careers in their new job with your help
there's a great opportunity right now to
do exactly that I work with a company
actually called bluecore out in New York
they sell exclusively to the retail
industry
and the retail industry for those of you
who have worked in it or or sell to it
it's notorious for employees moving
around a lot so one day their champion
who was the director of merchandising at
a big retailer vanished
he's gone
so what did a lot of companies do at
that moment they
what I would say panic and they say to
themselves we gotta go into account
management mode we got to find our new
Champion where's our new how are we
going to solve are we going to deal with
it that's not exact that's not at all
what they did instead what they did was
they said why don't we figure out where
he went and so they did and turned out
that he had gotten an upgrade
he was now the head of merchandising for
an even larger retail brand
so guess where that led first of all
when they connected with him he was
thrilled because it's it's somebody that
he knew and loved and trusted from his
past like bringing it all together he
was still getting his bearings but after
a series of meetings that were that the
sales cycle for this opportunity that
they had was very short he already knew
the value that he was going to get and
guess what the land the dollar land was
much bigger than their average because
again he knew he could take a bigger
bite
because the product worked
and it's worked for him before
so in a downturn
do more of hunting down your old
customers and new jobs you can really
reduce your sales cycle
okay so let's wrap this up
uh some closing takeaways Christina
I mean I think you know for burn
management it's really important to
understand the root Roi of your spend
and if that's sales and marketing I'd
focus on Cafe back
start early on your partnership strategy
most Partnerships fail and the best
Partnerships take a long time to bear
fruit
and in a downturn you can never Focus
too much
be as creative as you've ever been
and do less
doing less with more creativity will go
a long way deeper not wider
foreign
[Music]